h2. Building on Windows

See the "Cygwin":https://github.com/ry/node/wiki/Building-node.js-on-Cygwin-%28Windows%29 page.

h2. Modules

See the "Modules":http://github.com/ry/node/wiki/modules page.

h2. Projects / Applications
* "node_chat":http://github.com/ry/node_chat by ry
* "q-chess":http://github.com/wsdookadr/Q-Chess/tree/rewrite by wsdookadr — chess game multiplayer server using [[faye|http://github.com/jcoglan/faye]] + client written using [[Qooxdoo|http://qooxdoo.org/]] 
* "node3p":http://github.com/ncb000gt/node3p by ncb000gt -- AmazonMP3 downloader
* "node3p-web":http://github.com/ncb000gt/node3p-web by ncb000gt -- Web interface for node3p
* "nodelint":http://github.com/tav/nodelint by tav — run jslint from the command line
* "minlint":https://github.com/tsmith/minlint - minimalist version of jslint from command line
* "nodeload":http://github.com/benschmaus/nodeload by benschmaus and jonjlee  — utility for benchmarking HTTP APIs
* "nodewiki":http://github.com/gjritter/nodewiki -- a simple wiki based on node and redis
* "blog.js":http://github.com/furtivefelon/blog.js -- Simple blogging engine based on node.js
* "cassiterite":http://github.com/kurokikaze/cassiterite -- Another blogging engine based on node.js + Tokyo Tyrant + nginx
* "Sousaball":http://github.com/creationix/sousaball by creationix (<a href="http://sousaball.creationix.com">sousaball.creationix.com</a>)
* "DinMaker":http://github.com/creationix/node-topcloud-chat by creationix (live demo at <a href="http://chat.creationix.com">chat.creationix.com</a>)
* "Flickr Spy":http://github.com/ncr/flickr_spy -- Discover where your Flickr contacts are commenting
* "azathoth":http://github.com/orlandov/azathoth -- simple HTTP traffic/load generator and benchmark proof of concept
* "antinode":http://github.com/mhansen/antinode -- Simple static file HTTP Server with logging
* "NodeMachine":http://github.com/tautologistics/nodemachine -- Port of WebMachine for Node.js
* "LifeInText":http://github.com/weilawei/LifeInText -- LiT is a mashup platform for personal projects and snippets.
* "Ajax IM":http://github.com/endtwist/AjaxIM -- Ajax IM is an instant messaging server and framework for the browser.
* "7 Minutes Chrono":http://www.7minuteschrono.com - A speed-dating chat application. Uses websockets and node.js
* "Persevere":http://www.persvr.org/ - REST/HTTP + JSON-based web data project that includes "Pintura":http://github.com/kriszyp/pintura, "Perstore":http://github.com/kriszyp/perstore, "CommonJS-Utils":http://github.com/kriszyp/commonjs-utils
* "js.io":http://github.com/mcarter/js.io -- Javascript Networking Library for building real-time web applications
* "BusBound":http://www.busbound.com/ - iPhone web application built with express framework
* "JSONPify":http://jsonpify.com/ - a JSONP proxy for client applications
* "Djangode":http://github.com/simonw/djangode - Django’s regex-based URL handling, utility functions, and html templating for node
* "The WPilot Project":http://jfd.github.com/wpilot/ - A multiplayer, space shooter, action game in your browser. Server is built in node
* "Socket.IO":http://github.com/LearnBoost/Socket.IO-node - An abstraction over all the realtime transports (WebSocket, long polling, XHR multipart, etc) for the Node HTTP server
* "zztmmo":http://github.com/marak/zztmmo - a zzt based massive multiplayer online game built in node.js and jQuery (currently only single player)
* "diretto":http://www.diretto.org/ - Distributed Recon/Reporting Transceiver Toolkit – Uses Node.js for web-based media storage and for its RESTful webservice implementation
* "ElusiveHippo":http://elusivehippo.com - Push deployment for nodejs (non-functional / doesn't work)
* "Chess Riot":http://chessriot.com - a live Lightning Chess app built in node.js, express, CoffeeScript and jQuery. By @weepy
* "Realie":http://www.web2media.net/laktek/2010/05/25/real-time-collaborative-editing-with-websockets-node-js-redis/ - Real-time Collaborative Editor using Web Sockets, Node.js & Redis (non-functional / doesn't work)
* "GrowlHub":http://github.com/idris/growlhub - Growl Notifications for GitHub
* "Simple Node.js MUD":http://github.com/gumho/simple-node.js-mud - Simple multi-user dungeon using Node.js
* "wtfjs":http://github.com/brianleroux/wtfjs - what the fuck javascript!
* "node.ly":http://github.com/giacecco/node.ly - A simple URL shortener written in Node.js and SQLIte3 (moving to CouchDB in future version 2)
* "vertex.js":http://github.com/stevedekorte/vertex.js - A graph database inspired by filesystems built on node.js and tokyocabinet.
* "The API Playground":http://github.com/jashkenas/api-playground - A website where journalists can play with API examples. (CoffeeScript/Express) "apiplayground.org":http://apiplayground.org
* "Szpil":https://szpil.com - CRM using Node and TokyoCabinet. Shared client/server database and model code, user interface decoupled from the network, API retrieval and authorization performed at the meta-data layer using set union and intersection on indexes to avoid JSON deserialization/serialization overhead.
* "vows.js":http://vowsjs.org/ - "Asynchronous behaviour driven development for Node."
* "jimi":http://github.com/colingourlay/jimi -- A framework for writing modular web applications in node.js ("tutorial":http://wiki.github.com/colingourlay/jimi/tutorial-hello-world)
* "stackvm":http://github.com/pkrumins/stackvm -- Virtual machines on the web!
* "paperserve":http://github.com/StanAngeloff/node-paperserve -- Quick and dirty web server from your working directory
* "Trending Topics Client":http://github.com/fczuardi/ttc -- Command line tool to get trending topics from Twitter
* "nTunes":http://github.com/TooTallNate/nTunes by TooTallNate -- A REST (HTTP) API for interacting with iTunes written in NodeJS.
* "nTunesAnywhere":http://github.com/TooTallNate/nTunesAnywhere by TooTallNate -- A mobile WebApp to access your iTunes library from anywhere (using nTunes and jQTouch)!
* "Node.js Interactive Shell":http://github.com/bancek/node-interactive-shell -- Interactive shell for Node.js
* "Alligator":http://github.com/mrohad/Alligator -- Application Server on top of NodeJS (JSSP and SSJS support)
* "node-build":http://github.com/linkitprojects/node-build -- ant like build tool for nodejs without the xml hassle 
* "scriptable-node-irc-bot":http://github.com/haxd/scriptable-node-irc-bot -- Scriptable Node IRC Bot
* "Top Twitter Trends":http://www.toptwittertrends.com -- Real time trending tweets by node.js, nginx and mongodb
* "Cloud9":http://www.cloud9ide.com -- Cloud9 IDE is aiming to be the IDE for Javascript developers, built with NodeJS and lots of other Node modules
* "OPOWER Jobs":http://github.com/dylang/opowerjobs -- Open source example of a full live site using Express, Connect, EJS, AssetManager, Logging, and other Node modules.
* "nodemon":http://github.com/remy/nodemon -- Development tool for automatically restarting Node server when changes are made to any app files
* "jsbuild":http://github.com/azer/jsbuild -- A command-line utility that provides building CommonJS modules and packages for web
* "NodeGame Shooter":http://github.com/BonsaiDen/NodeGame-Shooter - Multiplayer asteroids with powerups etc. Using a fat Node.js server with thin clients
* "NodeCli":http://github.com/SchizoDuckie/Node-CLI - A super-simple class for Node.js to spice up your Node.js console output. Position cursor, clear screen, change colors
* "noatta.ch":http://noatta.ch/ -- Instant Personal File Sharing
* "node-tracker":http://github.com/pleax/node-tracker -- BitTorrent tracker implemented with Node.js
* "Scrabbly":http://scrabb.ly - A Massively Multiplayer word game written on node.js. A Node Knockout winner.
* "node-boilerplate":http://github.com/robrighter/node-boilerplate -- Everything you need to get started on a Node.js website with express and socket.IO
* "Orona":http://stephank.github.com/orona/ -- A multiplayer game of tank warfare. (Remake of the classic Mac game Bolo.)
* "Hummingbird":http://hummingbirdstats.com/ -- A realtime web analytics app using socket.io 
* "Node.io":http://node.io/ -- A distributed data scraping and processing framework
* "Backbone Examples Ported From Knockout (WIP)":https://github.com/mgutz/backbone-knockout-examples -- by Mario Gutierrez
* "TxtAtlas: Put your texts on the map":http ://txtatlas.com -- A demo Twilio/Node.js/Redis application by Stephen J. Walters
* "Substance":https://github.com/michael/substance — A data-driven and cloud-aware realtime document authoring engine
* "Graffiti &beta;":http://yay3d.com/graffiti — Interactive multi-user shared canvas whiteboard
* "BirdChat":http://birdch.at/ — Chat with your friends from Twitter
* "bookfriend.me":http://bookfriend.me/ — Community site for Barnes and Noble Nook owners who want to borrow/lend books
* "Fishl.com":http://fishl.com/ — Mark and save quotes you like all over the Web
* "slyncr":http://cleverchris.com/slyncr/ — bookmarklet to control web slideshows via a remote site
* "Applifier - Largest social game cross promo network)":http://www.applifier.com (reference <a href="http://twitter.com/jussil/status/12048190433918976">http://twitter.com/jussil/status/12048190433918976</a>)
* "memcached.js":https://github.com/dalssoft/memcached.js — Port of Memcached for Node.js
* "Loggly":http://loggly.com/ — Webservice for receiving syslog and HTTP based logs.
* "spotted@":http://spotted.at/ — spotted @ provides local classifieds for jobs, housing, for sale, personals, services, local community, and events.
* "designo":https://github.com/kazuyukitanimura/designo — Realtime Twitter client demo exploiting Node.js+Websockets+HTML5

h2. Articles
* "Mastering Node":http://visionmedia.github.com/masteringnode/ - Open Source eBook by TJ Holowaychuk and the node community
* "How to start develop with node js on linux from windows":http://wiki.github.com/shimondoodkin/nodejs-autorestart/how-to-start-develop-with-node-js-on-linux -- by Shimon Doodkin
* "pubsub":http://www.nonblocking.io/2009/06/scalable-pubsub-with-nodejs.html -- by Malte Ubl
* "Going Evented with Node.js":http://www.nakedjavascript.com/going-evented-with-nodejs -- Naked JavaScript
* "Node.js is genuinely exciting":http://simonwillison.net/2009/Nov/23/node/ -- by Simon Willison
* "Unit testing in node.js":http://caolanmcmahon.com/unit_testing_nodejs.html -- by Caolan McMahon
* "Deploying Node.js with Upstart and Monit":http://howtonode.org/deploying-node-upstart-monit -- by Tim Smart
* "Deploying node.js with Upstart":http://caolanmcmahon.com/deploying_nodejs_applications_with_upstart.html -- a few updates to the above article -- by Caolan McMahon
* "Several tutorials about Node.js":http://howtonode.org/ -- by Tim Caswell (How to Node)
* "Advanced JavaScript $4 eBook":http://www.dev-mag.com/2010/02/18/advanced-javascript/ -- by TJ Holowaychuk
* "Node.js - I just have to use it for something":http://www.hawksworx.com/journal/2010/02/15/nodejs-i-just-have-to-use-it-for-something/ -- by Phil Hawksworth
* "node by example":http://blog.osbutler.com/categories/node-by-example/ -- by Hendrik Daldrup
* "Implementing Web Socket servers with Node.js":http://www.web2media.net/laktek/2010/05/04/implementing-web-socket-servers-with-node-js/ -- by Lakshan Perera
* "ServerSide JavaScript with MooTools and NodeJS":http://davidwalsh.name/mootools-nodejs -- by Christoph Pojer
* "Step by step instructions to install NodeJS on Windows":http://boxysystems.com/?p=203 -- by Siddique Hameed
* "Check Gmail with Node.js":http://www.mgutz.com/2010/10/01/check_gmail_with_node_js.html -- by Mario Gutierrez
* "Writing for node and the browser":http://caolanmcmahon.com/writing_for_node_and_the_browser.html -- by Caolan McMahon
* "NodeJS-Keychain":https://github.com/aschlosberg/NodeJS-Keychain -- by Arran Schlosberg
* "Move the Brush":http://www.movethebrush.com - by Gershon Bialer

h2. Talks
* "GoogleTechTalk: Node.js":http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F6k8lTrAE2g -- by Ryan Dahl
* "Node.js at JSConf.eu 2009":http://jsconf.eu/2009/video_nodejs_by_ryan_dahl.html -- by Ryan Dahl
* "Node.js at JSConf.us 2010":http://nodejs.org/jsconf2010.pdf -- by Ryan Dahl
* "Running YUI3 on Node.js":http://www.slideshare.net/apmoore/running-yui-3-on-nodejs -- by Adam Moore
* "What Does Node Need From Us?":http://www.slideshare.net/creationix/what-does-node-need-from-us -- By Tim Caswell
* "SenchaLabs Connect & Express":http://www.slideshare.net/creationix/senchalabs-connect-express -- By Tim Caswell
* "Real Time Web with Node":http://www.slideshare.net/creationix/real-time-web-with-node -- By Tim Caswell
* "Node Powered Mobile":http://www.slideshare.net/creationix/node-powered-mobile -- By Tim Caswell

h2. Companies using node
* "Academia.edu":http://www.academia.edu/ - uses node for background data processing
* "Adcloud":http://adcloud.com/ -- Javascript Adserver on EC2
* "AdGear":http://adgear.com/ -- Real-time advertising reporting
* "af83":http://af83.com/ -- uses node on several projects ("Geeks":https://github.com/AF83/Geeks for example)
* "Ajax.org":http://ajax.org/ -- Home of the Cloud9 IDE, Ajax.org Platform and O3 Node modules
* "Bitmechanic":http://www.bitmechanic.com/
* "Bocoup":http://bocoup.com
* "BrandedCode":http://brandedcode.com
* "Caffeinehit":http://caffeinehit.com
* "Chompin":http://chompin.com - discover new music, mobile app, uses node for the entire back end api
* "clickdummy":http://clickdummy.net - Fast prototyping for designers and dummies
* "Datagraph":http://datagraph.org/ - uses node as part of a sharded large-scale RDF storage system.
* "Debuggable":http://debuggable.com/ -- Creators of "Transloadit":http://transloadit.com/ (image / video uploading and encoding as a service), also offers node.js training and consulting.
* "Deco":http://www.on-deco.com - Real-time collaborative mood boarding for web designers
* "Development Seed":http://developmentseed.org/ - building data sites  
* "Dextrose":http://dextrose.com/ -- heavily uses node for their upcoming JavaScript based game engine "Aves Engine"
* "Duostack":http://www.duostack.com
* "Durchblicker":http://durchblicker.at - The Austrian price comparison site. (price calculation engine)
* "e-resistible":http://www.e-resistible.co.uk - uses node to handle network communication to restaurant printers
* "Fictorial":http://fictorial.com
* "Fostle":http://fostle.com/
* "Heroku":http://blog.heroku.com/archives/2010/4/28/node_js_support_experimental/ Dead simple Node deployment for you, and internal tools for us.
* "Humansized Inc.":http://www.humansized.com
* "ipowerhouse":http://www.ipowerhouse.com - Focused on haXe/Node.js  game dev; first all haxe/node bingo product.
* "Joyent":http://www.joyent.com/
* "LearnBoost":http://www.learnboost.com/ - free "gradebook":http://www.learnboost.com and lesson plan software
* "Left Logic":http://leftlogic.com
* "LinkiT projects":http://linkit-projects.nl - Use nodejs for developing javascript sites. (http://yalia.nl/
* "Medium":http://thisismedium.com
* "Mockingbird":http://gomockingbird.com -- Using Node.js and operational transformations to do real-time, collaborative wireframing
* "MyBrands":http://www.mybrands.de -- web-tracker and product recommendations (node + couchdb)
* "NewsBasis":http://newsbasis.com -- Web crawler and async work in node
* "Newspaper Club":http://www.newspaperclub.co.uk - Uses node.js for wrapping a nasty SOAP interface to InDesign Server.
* "Next Feature":http://www.nextfeature.com
* "Next Please!":http://nextplea.se - uses node to match "Adobe Stratus":http://labs.adobe.com/technologies/stratus/ id's.
* "nitobi":http://nitobi.com
* "Nodejitsu":http://nodejitsu.com Hosting and ninja training for node.js.
* "OPOWER":http://opowerjobs.com - Using Node for recruiting site, referral tracking, and other new projects.
* "Original Machine":http://originalmachine.com - Using node for realtime statistics in "Stereofeed":http://stereofeed.com .
* "Palm/HP":http://developer.palm.com/ - powers all the services in the new WebOS platform for mobile devices.
* "Pixelspark":http://www.pixelspark.nl/
* "Plurk":http://www.plurk.com/ -- using node.js for its "new comet system":http://amix.dk/blog/post/19490#Plurk-Instant-conversations-using-comet
* "Razorshift Entertainment":http://www.razorshift.com/ - Online social properties and services.
* "Redman Tech":http://redmantech.com -- using Node to power internal tools, real time log monitoring, and R&D projects.
* "Sentymetr":http://sentymetr.pl - Social media monitoring in Poland. We use JavaScript and node.js for data processing.
* "Sexbyfood":http://www.sexbyfood.com -- a web-based reservations book for restaurateurs
* "Shine Technologies":http://www.shinetech.com/ -- Software consultancy with offices in Brisbane & Melbourne. We're helping our client to rewrite one of Australia's largest web sites using node.
* "SitePen":http://www.sitepen.com/ - Using node for persevere
* "Siteworx":http://www.siteworx.com/
* "Szpil":https://szpil.com - Keep detailed contact histories. Review past calls and conversations. Collaborate with colleagues. 
* "Telefónica R&D":http://tid.es
* "URGE IO":http://urge.io
* "Vision Media":http://vision-media.ca -- Web development firm based in Victoria, BC
* "Webbynode":http://webbynode.com
* "Webdigi Web Development":http://www.webdigi.co.uk -- Web development agency based in London, UK
* "Widescript":http://widescript.com -- A digital reading app targeted to people who study or make use of reference material.
* "Yammer":https://www.yammer.com -- The Yammer Application Platform heavily uses node.js
* "Ylastic":http://ylastic.com/ - uses node for report processing and admin app
* "[[BörseGo AG|http://boerse-go.ag|]]" - they use a nodejs server for providing news pushed via websockets on http://www.jandaya.de
* "Proxlet":http://proxlet.com -- Twitter API proxy & browser extension to filter out the noise.
* "Pushme.to":http://pushme.to -- web to iPhone messenger is using node.js for real-time messaging passing and push notifications